If you've known me for a little bit, you
probably have seen me make fun of Arch
Linux, you know, maybe like once or
twice on Twitter. I still have no idea
what is happening here. And now look at
me. I'm I'm actually using Arch Linux.
Okay, I'm using it. And you're probably
asking yourself, why why did you change?
Why did you leave your wife and kids and
reclaim your virginity? Well, the thing
is is it's not because of the anime
waifuss, okay? That didn't that that did
not convince me. It's not because Yay is
the greatest package manager of all
time. No, it's because of Peudes. That's
right, PewDiePie. This man right here,
the man who taught me that Ninja died of
Ligma. He shamed me. Shamed me into
using Arch Linux. But before I tell you
what has changed, what my desktop
experience is like, what why my
developer experience is truly better
than yours. I first want to tell you why
I make my changes. Because if I don't,
I'm going to have 100 comments like
Kitty is better. wisdom is better. Why
don't you use this? Why don't you use
that? I don't honestly care about your
opinion. So, please stop leaving that
comment. Okay. Thank you. By the way,
this wasn't some sort of reverse
psychology. I really I don't care.
Please don't tell me kitty is better.
Okay. Is is this what you want? That's
what you want. You want this kind of
kitty experience? I don't want that.
Okay. Okay. So, my philosophy of rice is
really really simple. Okay. I ask
myself, what is the tilos of rice? The
tilos for me is developer experience,
not looks. what I use and how I use it
is because I want a faster
and better developer experience. This
means it doesn't bother me that I use
T-Mox and not Ze. To me, it's just
commands on a CLI. All I want is a
terminal multiplexer that works
consistently that I know how to use.
They're all the same to me, okay?
Session, Windows, PES, I don't care. I
just want sessions and windows. I don't
even like PES, okay? It they're a pain
in the ass. And my TLOS is from a day
back at Netflix when my co-worker showed
me his setup. He used Emacs, the Lord's
operating system. And my goodness, it
was so fast. It was so smooth. It made
my little Better Touch Tools Mac OSX
experience look like the base of a
mountain comparatively to his. He was at
the tippity top. I was at the base. And
I hated it. I wanted to be better. I
wanted to be faster. I wanted to be
smoother. I wanted to be covered in that
sweet, sweet coconut oil. But I was not.
So my tilos of rice is very very simple.
It comes in four steps. One, try not to
stray from defaults cuz the more things
you have to configure, the more times
you'll have to open up some like crappy
UI or something and kind of like set up
some extra layers of config and all
that. It's just I I want nothing to do
with it. Okay. Second, never search with
your eyes if possible. Meaning, I want
to press one button and go to where I
want to go. If I can't do that, I want
to fuzzy find to where I want to go. And
if then I can't do it, I then will
accept searching with my eyeballs or
like typing and doing something super
slow to get to where I want to go. Oh
no, I knew this was gonna happen. I knew
this was gonna happen. My my microphone
stand finally broke. Oh my gosh. The
single worst developer experience of all
time has to be the Mac OSX like explode
feature. You know, when people go like
and then they search just for that for
what they Oh my gosh. When I see someone
use that, I actually just genuinely
think it's a crime against developers.
It is the worst single feature of all
time. Like, how do you how did you get
here? How did you manage to to start
living this life? Third thing is don't
switch to something because it's newer.
That's not that's not a reason to use
something. There has to be a real reason
to use it. Four, create tools that make
your experience better. Don't create
tools to save like a keystroke. So,
obviously, the biggest change I've made
is this. There's no more screen tearing.
I know. Eight years of quality content
and it's gone.
I no longer have screen tearing. It's
kind of a sad day. Poor one out for
screen tearing. I now use Hyperland as
my window manager. Look at these rounded
quarters. Look at the gap. Look at this
nice blue window outline. I know I I I I
have said that I would not want to use
gaps, but guess what? I'm a new boy. I'm
going to give it a shot. Okay. I think
that you should always do that. Try just
give it a shot. Just see how it feels.
And if you don't like the gaps, get rid
of the gaps. So far, I'm I'm still on
the fence. And also, by the way, also
just I just want you to know this.
Absolutely not. No animations. Okay. So,
you see this? You see these animations?
No. They're dead. They're gone. I want a
quick instant no transition because if
there's a transition, I just sit there
and I just look at the transition. I
just salivate over the transition. You
know why? I have too much ADHD or
something. I don't know what happens. I
can't help but to just look at it be
transfixed by the slow motion. If you
make a transition five seconds long, I'm
like stun locked. I'm like,
Speaking of fast transitions, here's a
word from our sponsor. Whether you are a
vibe coder or an artisally freerange
neoim user, you still need CI to build
your binaries, run tests, and publish
your releases. That's where Blacksmith
comes in. It takes your GitHub actions
and with a oneline change makes them
faster and cheaper. Get your CI running
on high performance CPUs instead of
GitHub's old servers. We're happy to
have them as a sponsor for this episode
because just like us, this one is truly
a no-brainer. Sign up and enjoy faster
GitHub action workflows at a much lower
price. Blacksmith, twice the speed and
half the cost. Check them out at
blacksmith.sh.
I've been working on my transitions.
Anyways, back to the video. I'm also
trying to drive my experience more
through my window manager because before
I used to do a lot through the terminal.
Now I'm trying to move it up uplevel it
into the window manager. So if I just
simply go mods, I have a screenshot. I
can grab a little screenshot. That's
super duper handy. Goes right into my
clipboard. If I want to refresh any of
my developer tools, all I have to do
super shift D. Yeah, that's right. Give
it the super shifty. And then if I want
to update my way bar, restart it and add
whatever new icons I have.
Mod W. So it actually kind of feels nice
because I have everything kind of set
up. And speaking of way bar, look at
this way bar. Okay, I want to start
right here. Zoom it. Zoom it in. If you
look right here, what you're going to
see.
Yeah, that's right. That's my server. I
have my little server status up here. I
know if OBS is connected. I know if my
admin panel is connected. If it's not
up, it says down. Right. That makes
sense. Next over is how many, you know,
workspaces I have on this monitor.
Pretty dang useful. What workspace am I
on? Actually, honestly, I don't even
need this. I actually don't even know
why I have this here to tell you the
complete truth. I already know how I use
my stuff. I use it one way 100% of the
time. I don't have to search. There's no
searching. Okay. Next, I have the time
in the middle. And I've always been
curious about this. Why not just the day
of the month and the time? Like, why do
you have what month it is? Why do you
have what year it is in your time? Like,
don't you know this? Yes, you know this.
You don't need to know it's Thursday.
You know it's Thursday. Okay, I don't
even have a full-time real job and I
know it's Thursday. You don't have an
excuse. Okay, I understand that every
day is a standup day and every day you
have to hear about Bill's dog and you
don't want to hear about it. So, you try
to forget every single day by drowning
yourself in C code. But that's not me. I
just simply remembered. Okay. And of
course, there's my volume of my
speakers, how many battery life units I
have, if I'm plugged into the Ethernets,
there's my CPU humming along. There's
how much memory I'm using. You're
probably asking yourself, "Hey, Prime,
how are you using that many gigabytes?"
Well, this fun thing called the browser.
Okay, apparently you can't have more
than just a handful of tabs open without
using just gigawatts memory. Also, look
at this locked screen. I don't even know
what I'm going to do with the locked
screen. I've literally never locked my
screen in my lifetime. Look at it,
though. Oh, it's so beautiful. I can
just Oh my gosh,
it's so pretty. But the most painful
moment of me becoming an arch boy was
actually an optin feature. See, the
thing is is that remember the first
point of my tilos of change, which is
always use defaults. I used to be an alt
boy. Okay, I'd use alt as my kind of my
window manager key. But by using alt, so
many other programs use alt and they
would render all those shortcuts
useless. So, I've switched over to
super, which is on the other hand, which
means that every single time I want to
change workspaces or all that, I have
like eight years of muscle memory going,
"It's alt, brother." But it's not alt.
Okay, I found myself struggling a little
bit, but I'm happy I've made the change
because now I can do cool things like
this. And then I can just press alt one
and I go to Twitch. I can press alt two,
I go to Discord, I can press alt three,
and I can go to Twitter. Okay, that's
pretty nice. I like that. I'm happy
about that experience. And that's right.
I also use Zen if you can't tell. I
think Zen is honestly just the the the
whole like tab experience and the
essentials. It's by far the best way to
use a browser. It's fantastic.
Absolutely like it. It's just better
than whatever that vertical business or
that horizontal business up on top is.
Okay. And lastly, organizing your
workspaces is just so important. Listen
to me. Okay. Workspace one, that's my
browser. You can see that. Workspace 2,
Twitch chat. Workspace 3, that's where I
do all my testing. Workspace 4, that's
where I do all my coding. Workspace 5,
this is where I do all my prompting of
the AI to write my CSS because I never
want to write CSS ever in my entire
lifetime. And workspace 6 is where I
make beautiful drawings. That's right,
just one key press. I go to the program
I want to go to. I don't have to scroll.
I don't have to play that game of going
like this. Command tab, command tab,
command tab, command tab. I don't have
to like search through a list. I don't
have to use my eyeballs. I know when I
press super one, I go to my browser.
There's no questions in my brain. I set
it up the same way every single time.
But honestly, it's not about the looks
for me, okay? It's about what's on the
inside, the powering of the developer
experience. And that's why I just simply
use Ghosty Plus T-Mox, okay? And yes, I
don't have Fast Fetch. I don't need you
to tell me what operating system I'm
using. I don't need you to tell me my
local IP. I don't need you to tell me my
battery life. I have literally no idea
why people use FastFetch. I actually
don't get it at all. And fast fetch is
only slightly confusing as compared to
Yazy. Why would you use a file manager?
What is a terminal file manager for?
What are you? I don't even get it. I
don't even get it. Okay, cuz when I work
I work in BIM. I use netrw. I shift
things around and use all my sweet
hotkeys to get things done. Why? What?
What are you doing? If I need to delete
a directory, I just use RM. Remove the
French. Oh, did did I hurt your feelings
just then, making fun of Fast Fetch and
Yazy? Are you going to have to snuggle
up next to your little full body anime
waifu pillow and just endure these
trials and tribulations? Yes, I still
use T-Mox. Yes, I understand it's not as
new as Zelage Zelage or Zelig or however
you're supposed to say it. Okay,
Zelage.
And guess what? Look at these two
commands. One's T-Mux, one's Zelig. They
both create a detach session and they
both start at a specific directory.
It's the same thing. This is like 80% of
my T-Mux commands. After that, I just
open up Windows. I just literally prefix
C. That's it. I swear if one person
suggests using Zelage.
Also, T-M Sessionizer is incredible. As
you can see, look at all these like
directories I can fuzzy find, jump to
exactly where I want to go. And that
means with T-Mux, I can do the whole
previous session thing or I can fuzzy
find to where I want to be. It is more
than I want and it's super fast. And the
best part is is that I use Vim, by the
way, if in case you didn't know. I'm a
big Vim boy. Okay. Hey, I use Vim by the
way. It's right there. Can you see that?
Look at that. Yeah. Yeah. Can you see
it? Now with Vim and T-M. It's
fantastic. Now, right now, my Neo Vim
kind of experience, I don't use the old
AI as they call it. Okay. But I am open
to checking out Avante and Super Maven.
I just haven't yet. I'm I'm planning on
doing that in July. Little live on
Twitch.
But deep down, the reason why I don't
have AI is well,
you know why, and you know it, too. So,
here's my obvious setup. LSP navigation.
Okay. If I want to jump to definition,
use a little GD for jump to definition.
If I want to know what's going on in
this function, shift K. If I want to get
a quick fix list of all these
references, boom, little leader Dr. RR
for find references. About 80% of all my
navigation is with an LSP. And when I'm
not doing that, I'm using Harpoon. Look
at Harpoon. I can jump to the files that
I want to be in as fast as possible.
Single key navigation. A lot like my
window manager. Oh my goodness. It's
almost like my window manager and
Harpoon
have some things in common. It's almost
like Sessionizer, Harpoon, I3, which is
now Hyperland. I just forgot for a
second. All have a lot of similar
navigation. And when I can't figure that
out, I just simply use Telescope. Yes,
Telescope's awesome. I hear that Faulky.
Yes, my B FY, my boy Faulky is writing
his own version of Telescope.
Apparently, I'm just going to use that
when he uses it and it's awesome.
Probably it's going to be it's going to
be the best cuz he's just the best. And
then lastly, Undutyree. Look at it. Look
how great Undut is. People forget that
undoing is not linear. It's a tree.
There's branching. And guess what? You
want to hear something kind of that's
going to blow your mind? Are you ready
for this one? Git is just undo history.
Now, you'll probably notice that
everything I said here that I love about
my setup is all about navigation. And
the reason is very, very simple. Most of
editing is finding where you need to be.
And so, I've optimized that process. I
want to be where I need to be in as few
keystrokes as possible. So notice that
none of my stuff is like I changed get
status to GS. I'm a hacker. No, you're
not a hacker. You've just saved a couple
keystrokes in a meaningless way. Now all
you have is a bunch of code you have to
maintain to make you have a couple extra
shortcuts. Oh man, that's super duper.
But to be completely fair, I used to do
the exact same thing. I've long since
stopped. I just use things the way God
intended. Okay. actually well in this
case the way that the creator of the
tool intended. I stopped trying to make
my own shortcuts because when you make
your own shortcuts, guess what ends up
happening? Something changes and then
you're just like stuck in this horrible
place of having to update all your
scripts or not knowing why they're
breaking. Every line of configuration
you add is liability. It's almost never
a competitive mode. Even get integration
in the editor, like this is super
useful. It's super cool that in Vim I
can just select which chunk I want added
to the git history and which chunk I
could remove or I could undo. But at the
end of the day, this only saves a small
amount of time. I almost never do these
operations. It's almost always just
simply like get add dot get commit some
dumb message get push origin master.
Like there's nothing to it. And that's
99% of yours as well. I know there's a
lot of people that come up with a lot of
different reasons why they need to do
all this stuff, but really it's all
about navigation. Okay, you should have
your windows set up in such a way that
you can go to which program you want.
Inside the program, you should be able
to go to which subp part of the program
you want as fast as possible. Inside
your editor, you should be able to go to
the file that you want as fast as
possible. When you need the delete code,
this deletion should be as fast as
possible. All of it should take nobrain
effort. Now, this is the reason why I
tell everyone they should learn how to
type. It's the same thing. It's not
about saving that small amount of
milliseconds, okay? It's not like, "Oh
my gosh, I'm getting faster." And then
you go to the bathroom and ruin all your
savings. No, it's not about that. What
it is, it's about saving mental cycles.
Cuz at the end of the day, we can only
do so much. when you have to do the same
operation and it takes actual focus to
find your program that you need to be in
and you have to do that a thousand times
a day. There's like this wearing slow
amount of just like anxiousness that
will build in you and by the end of the
day you're like I don't want to work at
all. That's because you keep on doing
all these like zone breaking activities
if you don't know how to type and you
literally have to look down at your
keyboard and hunt for the letters. Like
that is just valuable brain power you
could be using to solve the problem
instead of just sitting there painfully
thinking through every keystroke. Like
that's crazy thing to do. Like remove
the easy stuff. remove the things that
make life repetitive so you can actually
do the fun parts, which is the building
part, which is creating the super cool
software, which is spending time
mastering your DPI configuration so you
can have animate white foos. Okay, and
there you go. I'm an arch boy now. Okay,
I'm an arch boy. Sure, maybe I bricked
my system once or twice along the
process. Okay, maybe I couldn't figure
out why certain things didn't work. I
tried to get sway on yubuntu to work.
That didn't work. It doesn't really
matter. Arch Arch install super easy. It
was a lot of fun. I suggest you give it
a try. And ultimately, at the end of the
day, what I really hope you take away
from this isn't that Arch is the
pinnacle of development. I hope what you
take away is making a good personalized
development experience for you and
removing the repetitive annoying parts
of development and making those clean
and easy is truly the biggest life hack
as a developer. The name
This is the archen. You can like and
subscribe now. Just so you know, you can
press those buttons. They're free.
They're actually free. You can just
press them and like almost nobody will
know. So, just do it. Okay.